# Computational Musicology

## Corpus

When you are feeling down it is comforting to listen to sad music as it matches your mood. Sometimes the music can make you feel less alone or it feels like someone else relates to your problems. The corpus I chose is a playlist full of sad songs. A very good playlist of a friend of mine called "Sad \*itch Hours" is a playlist with 203 sad songs. I find it interesting that there are also different playlists by Spotify that focus on sad music, but also differentiate in, for example, heartbreak or just having a bad day. I am interested to learn what makes a playlist a sad playlist? In contrast to this I would also like to add playlists focussed on happy moods to my corpus, to look at the differences between happy and sad music. 

The natural groups I would like to investigate in the sad playlist is genres and artists. Focussing on whether a certain genre is predominant in sad music, and whether this genre is very different from happy music. It is also interesting to see which artist has the most songs in the sad playlists and whether an artist might be more diverse by having both happy and sad songs. Futhermore, focussing on the two groups of heartbreak playlist or having a bad day playlist, I would like to know what makes a song fit in one of the categories, just the lyrics or something else?

I believe the tracks in my corpus are very representative as the playlist "Sad \*itch Hours" has a very diverse group of artists and therefore also genres. However, it does miss genres, for example country or metal sad music, as most songs are slow hip-hop, r&b or pop songs. The playlist generated by Spotify of sad and happy music are also very broad, but do focus on music that is more recent, and don't include many old songs.

Typical tracks in my corpus for sad songs are Don't Speak by No Doubt, songs by Billie Eilish, Lana del Rey, or Adele. Looking at the happy playlist by Spotify, it varies a lot from feel good songs to real party anthems.
